# Handling fault tolerant of large scale streaming system

##README
After the first study of “partitioning techniques for CEP”, I understand the basic techniques to partition the CEP, or to scale out the CEP, but I want to know more about what people are trying to do with these techniques. The first hot topic is "Fault-tolerant", which is the focus of this report.


##Background
State-of-the-art CEP in literature assume centralized server[SASE, HP-CHAOS, Siddhi, Cayuga] where possibility fault of server is largely ignored. There are distributed commercial CEP, but how they achieve fault tolerant is not clear, and suspected to rely on existing fault-tolerant strategy from distributed database community, namely roll forward or roll back.

However, if we consider “Negation”, which stands for “non-occurrence event” and “Sequencing”, which stands for “strict temporal sequence” feature in CEP, the existing solution is not going to work efficiently since they either assume no strict sequencing preservation requirement or assume all events are present (which in contrast with non-occurrence event).


>comments:

> Is it valuable to add RDD into CEP engine? If yes, then how?

##Parallel recovery


## stragglers ###
reference material:

1. [MapReduce:Simplified data processing on large clusters, OSDI'04]
2. [MapReduce:Simplified Data Processing on Large Clusters.08]

If a node is available but is performing poorly,a condition that we call a straggler, MapReduce runs a **speculative copy** of its task (also called a “backup task”) on another machine to finish the computation faster. Without this mechanism of speculative execution, a job would be as slow as the misbehaving task. Stragglers can arise for many reasons, including faulty hardware and mis-configuration. Google has noted that speculative execution can improve job response times by 44% [1] [2].
##Due with stragglers on Streaming
1. [Discretized
