4202
rpA
52
]IN.sc[
2v45050.0132:viXra
Low-Latency Video Conferencing via Optimized
Packet Routing and Reordering
Yao Xiao§¶, Sitian Chen†, Amelie Chi Zhou†∗, Shuhao Zhang‡, Yi Wang§¶, Rui Mao§¶ and Xuan Yang§¶
§Shenzhen University †Hong Kong Baptist University
‡Nanyang Technological University
¶Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Popular High Performance Computers
Abstract—In the face of rising global demand for video
meetings, managing traffic across geographically distributed
(geo-distributed) data centers presents a significant challenge
due to the dynamic and limited nature of inter-DC network
performance.Facingtheseissues,thispaperintroducestwonovel
techniques,VCRouteandWMJitter, tooptimizetheperformance
of geo-distributed video conferencing systems. VCRoute is a
routing method designed for audio data packets of video con- (a) Single service endpoint (b) Distributed service endpoints
ferences. It treats theroutingproblemas aMulti-ArmedBandit Fig. 1: video conferencing system service architectures.
issue, and utilizes a tailored Thompson Sampling algorithm for
resolution. Unlike traditional approaches, VCRoute considers
between endpoints and users (Figure 1a) or between multiple
transmitting latency and its variance simultaneously by using
endpoints (Figure 1b). The existing studies show that the
Thompson Sampling algorithm, which leads to effective end-
to-end latency optimization. In conjunction with VCRoute, we inter-DC network latency can be up to hundredsmilliseconds
present WMJitter, a watermark-based mechanismfor managing (see Section II-A). The high variance of inter-DC network
network jitter, which can further reduce the end-to-end delay performance also cause high jitter, which leads to challenges
and keep an improved balance between latency and loss rate.
whenreducingtheend-to-endlatencyofgeo-distributedvideo
Evaluations based on real geo-distributed network performance
conferencing. Below we summarize the challenges faced by
demonstrate the effectiveness and scalability of VCRoute and
WMJitter, offering robust solutions for optimizing video confer- existing video conferencing systems.
encing systems in geo-distributed settings. First, large cloud providers, with geographically dispersed
datacentersconnectedbyamanagedbackbonenetwork,allow
I. INTRODUCTION
thecreationofefficientoverlayalternativestothedefaultInter-
Due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the need net path [5], [6], [7]. Existing studies have proposed various
for video conferencing increases dramatically throughout the online [5], [8] algorithms to find the best routing for video
world.AccordingtoZoomstatistics,theannualZoommeeting conferencingapplications.However,whenmakingtherouting
minutes have increased by 3300% from October 2019 to decisions, existing methods mainly focus on minimizing the
October 2020 and the number continues to grow [1]. With packet transmitting latency from source to target, while in
the large number of businesses requiring global cooperation video conferencing applications, the end-to-end latency of
andcommunication,videoconferencingsystemssuchasZoom a packet contains not only the data transmitting time but
and VooV have been commonly used in a geographically also packet reordering time sensitive to network jitter (i.e.,
distributed(geo-distributed)manner,whereglobalparticipants Figure 3). Due to the dynamic and heterogeneous network
join an online meeting session from local clients to send performance in geo-distributed DCs, it is highly possible that
and receive audio and video messages. Users’ Quality of the routing decisions which lead to the minimum average
Experience (QoE) is heavily dependent on how well video packet transmitting latency do not guarantee the lowest av-
conferencing systems transfer and process the messages be- erage end-to-end latency. To provide low end-to-end latency
tween clients. video conferencing, we need to redesign the packet routing
Due to the global distribution of users, most video con- approachto findroutingpathwith low andstable transmitting
ferencing systems are also architected and deployed glob- latency.
ally to achieve good scalability and low latency. For exam- Second, inter-DC network latency varies greatly overtime.
ple, Zoom has 19 interconnected data centers (DCs) spread This is especially true on public Internet paths [9] with
across the world and can also scale to public clouds when the fastly increasing video conferencing traffic [10]. Higher
needed [2]. Existing video conferencing systems may have network dynamics lead to higher jitter, hence causing more
different architectures. For example, Figure 1 shows two packets to arrive at the destination out-of-order. Packets that
service architectures adopted by popular video conferencing are arriving too late will be discarded which results in packet
systems [3], [4]. For both architectures, large amounts of loss to data streams. Existing systems mostly adopt jitter
data are transferred across geo-distributed data centers, either buffers [11], [12] to handle the out-of-order problem, where

| the buffer | size | is an important | parameter |     | to balance | between |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ---------- | ---- | --------------- | --------- | --- | ---------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
1200
packet reordering latency and loss rate. By analyzing the  Shanghai-Tokyo
1000
jitter management in existing systems, we found that the )sm( TTR  Guangzhou-Tokyo
 Shanghai-Guangzhou
| buffer-basedmethodsareessentiallyin-order-processing(IOP) |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | 800 |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
600
| methods | and can | cause unnecessary |     | delay | for | packets | in the |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ------- | ----------------- | --- | ----- | --- | ------- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
400
| buffer when | there | are stragglers. |     | Due to | the | highly dynamic |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ----- | --------------- | --- | ------ | --- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
200
| featureofgeo-distributednetworks,theIOP-basedjitterbuffer |                 |       |      |         |        |     |     |     | 0     |       |       |       |       |             |     |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | ----- | ---- | ------- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----------- | --- |
|                                                           |                 |       |      |         |        |     |     |     | 19:12 | 20:24 | 21:36 | 22:48 | 00:00 | 01:12 02:24 |     |
| methods                                                   | will inevitably | cause | more | latency | waste. |     |     |     |       |       |       |       |       |             |     |
Time of Day
Inthispaper,wetackletwocriticalchallengesinimproving Fig. 2: RTT variation over time between different Tencent
|             |     |                    |     |                    |     |     |     | cloud | DCs. | We measure |     | RTT | once per | minute | and plot the |
| ----------- | --- | ------------------ | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- | --- | ----- | ---- | ---------- | --- | --- | -------- | ------ | ------------ |
| the quality | of  | video conferencing |     | in geo-distributed |     | DCs | by  |       |      |            |     |     |          |        |              |
proposing two novel techniques: VCRoute and WMJitter. average of every ten minutes.
| First, | VCRoute | is a | packet | routing | method | specifically |     |      |             |     |           |     |            |        |         |
| ------ | ------- | ---- | ------ | ------- | ------ | ------------ | --- | ---- | ----------- | --- | --------- | --- | ---------- | ------ | ------- |
|        |         |      |        |         |        |              |     | • We | extensively |     | evaluated |     | our design | on two | sets of |
designed for video conferencing systems. VCRoute treats the geo-distributed environments with complementary features.
routingproblemasaMulti-ArmedBanditproblemandapplies
Evaluationresultshaveshownthatourdesigncaneffectively
a custom version of Thompson Sampling to solve it. In reduce the end-to-end latency of packets by up to 44%
contrast to the previousapproaches[5], our method leverages compared to the state-of-the-art. We believe the results are
| the Bayesian |     | framework | inherent | in  | Thompson | Sampling |     |            |     |           |              |     |         |           |      |
| ------------ | --- | --------- | -------- | --- | -------- | -------- | --- | ---------- | --- | --------- | ------------ | --- | ------- | --------- | ---- |
|              |     |           |          |     |          |          |     | insightful |     | for video | conferencing |     | service | providers | from |
to derive probability distributions for individual arms. This different businesses (clouds, ISPs, etc.).
| innovative | approach | naturally | considers |     | transmitting | latency |     |     |           |     |      |       |              |     |             |
| ---------- | -------- | --------- | --------- | --- | ------------ | ------- | --- | --- | --------- | --- | ---- | ----- | ------------ | --- | ----------- |
|            |          |           |           |     |              |         |     | The | remainder | of  | this | paper | is organized | as  | follows. We |
and its variance simultaneously,which allows us to tackle the introducethebackgroundandmotivationinSectionII,present
highlydynamicnatureofgeo-distributednetworkperformance
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | the system |     | overview | in  | Section | III, | unfold design | details |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- | -------- | --- | ------- | ---- | ------------- | ------- |
effectively.
|             |            |                   |            |                   |           |            |         | in Section | IV       | and        | Section     | V,         | introduce      | our evaluation | in      |
| ----------- | ---------- | ----------------- | ---------- | ----------------- | --------- | ---------- | ------- | ---------- | -------- | ---------- | ----------- | ---------- | -------------- | -------------- | ------- |
| Second,     | we         | propose WMJitter, |            | a watermark-based |           | Out-Of-    |         |            |          |            |             |            |                |                |         |
|             |            |                   |            |                   |           |            |         | Section    | VI,      | present    | the related |            | literature     | in Section     | VII and |
| Order (OOP) | processing |                   | mechanism  | to                | handle    | network    | jitter. |            |          |            |             |            |                |                |         |
|             |            |                   |            |                   |           |            |         | finally    | conclude | the        | paper       | in Section | VIII.          |                |         |
| WMJitter    | leverages  | the               | advantages | of                | using     | watermarks | in      |            |          |            |             |            |                |                |         |
|             |            |                   |            |                   |           |            |         |            | II.      | BACKGROUND |             |            | AND MOTIVATION |                |         |
| streaming   | processing | systems,          | enabling   |                   | a further | reduction  | in      |            |          |            |             |            |                |                |         |
end-to-end delay. Leveraging window-based statistic method A. Geo-Distributed Network Features
forreal-timenetworkjitterestimationusedinWebRTCNetEQ Geo-distributed data communications go through the Wide
module [12], we facilitate timely and accurate adjustments to AreaNetwork(WAN),whichismuchdifferentfromintra-DC
| the watermark. |     | This efficient | buffering |     | management | provided |     |         |     |        |              |     |          |            |          |
| -------------- | --- | -------------- | --------- | --- | ---------- | -------- | --- | ------- | --- | ------ | ------------ | --- | -------- | ---------- | -------- |
|                |     |                |           |     |            |          |     | network | due | to its | high latency |     | and high | dynamicity | [13]. In |
by WMJitter can further reduce end-to-end latency, thus en- the following, we present observations from existing studies
hancing the overall system performance by striking a balance as well as our measurement of real inter-DC network perfor-
between latency and loss rate. These two methods, VCRoute manceonTencentcloud,to mimicthedeployingenvironment
and WMJitter, offer a comprehensiveand scalable solution to of a geo-distributed video conferencing system using public
| address the | challenges | of  | performance | optimization |     | for | video |         |              |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ---------- | --- | ----------- | ------------ | --- | --- | ----- | ------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|             |            |     |             |              |     |     |       | network | connections. |     |     |     |     |     |     |
conferencing systems in geo-distributed environments. First, the inter-DC network latency of different regions
We evaluate our techniques on two sets of real-world vary a lot. Existing measurement results of popular public
| geo-distributed |     | environments | with | complementary |     | features. |     |             |     |            |      |         |                    |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | ------------ | ---- | ------------- | --- | --------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | ---- | ------- | ------------------ | --- | --- |
|                 |     |              |      |               |     |           |     | clouds[14], |     | [15], [16] | show | thatthe | maximummediumvalue |     |     |
By comparing to state-of-the-art routing and jitter managing of iter-DC network latency (330ms) can be up to 33 times
approaches, we found that 1) VCRoute greatly outperforms of the minimum value. And a rich of studies [5], [17], [6],
existing approaches when the inter-DC network performance [7] have demonstratethatoverlayroutingis an applicableand
is highly heterogeneous(Section VI-B2); 2) watermark-based effective way to reduce the iter-DC network latency. Second,
| jitter management |     | has shown | great | improvement |     | on average |     |          |         |     |         |     |              |      |          |
| ----------------- | --- | --------- | ----- | ----------- | --- | ---------- | --- | -------- | ------- | --- | ------- | --- | ------------ | ---- | -------- |
|                   |     |           |       |             |     |            |     | inter-DC | network |     | latency | can | vary greatly | over | time. We |
end-to-endlatencywhentheinter-DCnetworkperformanceis measure the RTT between two instances located in different
highly dynamic (Section VI-B1). In summary, we make the Tencent cloud DCs for a few hours and plot the variation
following contributions: of RTT along time in Figure 2. The highest RTT between
To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to jointly Guangzhou and Tokyo can be over ten times larger than the
•
considertransmitting latency and its variance duringpacket average. There are also inter-DC links with low performance
routing,whichisimportanttoreducetheend-to-endlatency variations, such as that between Shanghai and Guangzhou.
for data packets in video conferencing systems. Thismaydependon thedistancebetweentwo DCs aswellas
• Existing video conferencing systems adopt buffer-based the traffic on the link.
jitterhandling,whichmayleadtounnecessarypacketdelay. The dynamicity of network latency in the geo-distributed
Wearethefirsttointroducewatermark-basedOut-of-Order- networkcanleadtojitterproblem,whichreferstothevariation
Processing (OOP) into the jitter management of video in the delay of packets as they traverse a network. Jitter
conferencingsystems, whichfurtherreducedtheend-to-end can be caused by a variety of factors, including network
latency for data packets. congestion, packet queuing, and routing issues. High levels

of jitter can result in poor network performance and may Packets Jitter Buffer Manager
cause problems for real-time applications such as voice and Arrived
Out of Order Jitter Jitter Buffer Ordered
video conferencing. Although packet loss rate between inter- Evaluator Buffer Size Packets
DC network paths can also impact the quality of real-time
Internet Ordered
applications, in this paper, we assume existing techniques
Insertion Insert Position
such as packet loss concealment [18] can adequately address Manager Decoder Player
the issue and focus mainly on the high heterogneity and Transmiting
Latancy Reordering Latancy
dynamicity issues of network latency.
End-to-end Latancy
Fig. 3: Jitter Buffer Manager in webRTC
B. video Conferencing Systems
In the past few years, especially since the outbreak of 900 800 COVID-19pandemic,videoconferencingsystemshaveplayed
200
an important role in our day-to-day communications. Opti- 150
100
mizing the quality of video/audio calls is urgent considering
50
the large number of end users distributed globally. Existing 00 100 200 300 400 500 600
studieshaverevealedtherelationshipbetweencallqualityand packet
network performance [5], which shows that network metrics
such as RTT and jitter can be used to accurately measure
the quality of video/audio calls. That is, any improvement
in RTT or jitter is likely to improve the call quality [5].
However, the special network features in geo-distributed DCs
(e.g., high RTT, heterogeneous relay paths and high jitter)
make it especially challenging to obtain good optimizations.
Popular video conferencing systems such as Zoom and
Webex adopt the single service endpoint architecture shown
in Figure 1a [3], where a single service endpointis scheduled
for each meeting session and all participants communicate
with the endpoint for audio streaming. The endpoint is used
to select and forward video/audio streams. Due to the high
latency of inter-DC network, this can clearly lead to large
delay for users far from the endpoint if without any rout-
ing optimizations. Whats ’more, data packets in the same
stream using default Internet paths (e.g., BGP-derived) are
routedindividually,theymaytakedifferentunderlaypathsand
encounter varying network latency, leading to high jitter. As
discussed in the last subsection, using other service nodes as
relaysandprovidingefficientroutingpolicybetweenendpoint
andusersmaybeabletoreducethedelayandjitterforpackets.
Existing network communication systems usually adopt
jitter buffers to compensate the quality degradation caused
by jitter. For example, Figure 3 shows the jitter buffer man-
agement in webRTC [12], a popular open-source framework
for creating video conferencing systems. Data packets travel
through the Internet and arrive at users’ end. A jitter buffer
at the user’s end temporarily stores incoming packets which
areusuallyout-of-order,andthenplaysthembackbyreorder-
ing the packets according to their timestamps of generation.
Packetsarrivingtoolatearediscarded.Jitterbufferabsorbsthe
variabilityinpacketarrivaltimes,allowingthecommunication
system to maintain a consistent quality of service. The buffer
size is an important parameter. A large buffer can provide
better jitter compensation, at the expense of increased delay,
while a small buffer may cause more packets being discarded
due to out-of-order. Existing studies [19], [20] proposed to
adapt the buffer size according to network jitter.
)sm(
ycnetal
Direct 900 Via 800 VCRoute
200
150
100
50
00 100 200 300 400 500 600
(a) Transmitting packet
)sm(
ycnetal
Direct 900 Via 800 VCRoute
200
150
100
50
00 100 200 300 400 500 600
(b) Reordering packet
)sm(
ycnetal
Direct Via VCRoute
(c) End-to-end
Fig. 4: Latencies of 30,000 packets communicated between
two ends in a video conferencing system. Average latency of
every 50 packets is plotted.
C. Motivations
With the global pandemic of COVID-19, some ISPs have
reported a more than 300% increase on video conferencing
traffic from February to October 2020 [10]. As a result,
the network congestion and variation will cause more severe
impact on the performance of video conferencing systems.
Existing studies optimize the performance of video confer-
encing systems by reducing the end-to-end latency of data
streams. As shown in Figure 3, the end-to-end latency of a
data stream is composed of two parts, including the time for
transmitting a packet through the Internet (i.e., transmitting
latency) and the lag that a packet stays in the jitter buffer
(i.e., reordering latency). Existing studies tried to reduce
the transmitting latency and reordering latency individually
through finding good dissemination paths [5] or designing
smart buffering schemes [17]. However, we found that op-
timizing the two components individually does not guarantee
good overall performance for video conferencing systems.
In a global video conferencing session, data streams are
transmitted through WAN composed of multiple autonomous
systems. Data packets in a stream are routed individually
and thus may end up with different underlay paths. Existing
routing methods such as Via [5] mainly focus on selecting
the best relay paths for packets in geo-distributed overlay
networks[21]tominimizepackettransmittingtime.However,
this does not guarantee low end-to-end latency for packets,
due to ignorance of packet reordering lag.
Consider a simple example with two communicating ends
and four relay nodes (17 paths between the two ends con-
sidering only direct paths and indirect paths with one or
two relays). The network performance between each pair of
nodes are adopted from real measurements in Tencent cloud.
Consider a stream of 30,000 packets sent from one end to
the other (emulating a 5min call). We adopt three different
waysto makeroutingdecisionsforeach packetin the stream,

VCRoute latency and jitter during routing to reduce the end-to-end
Scheduler
latency for data packets. Second, we designed a novel jitter
managernamedWMJitter atthe users’end,whichutilizesthe
Relay/Endpoint User1
Watermark-basedOOPmechanismtomakesurepacketscome
outofthejittermanagerinthecorrectorderunderlowlatency.
Relay/Endpoint (The service Ji W tte M r M -b a a n se a d g er
endpoint of the Figure 5 gives an overview of our system.
session)
Application-aware packet routing. Existing routing stud-
UUser2 Direct Path ies mainly focus on reducing the time that a packet travels
Relay Path
WM-based Control Information on the route, and thus do not guarantee low end-to-end
Jitter Manager
latency for video conferencing applications. In this paper, we
propose VCRoute, which is a centralized packet scheduler
Fig. 5: System Overview
specifically designed for optimizing the performanceof video
including Direct, Via [5] and VCRoute. The same packet
conferencingsystems.AsshowninFigure5,VCRouteaimsat
reordering approach is used for all comparisons. As shown
selectingthebestrelaypathforeachpackettravellingbetween
in Figure 4a, both Via and VCRoute can find relay paths
the endpoint and the end user.
leading to much lower data transmitting time than directly
We formulate the routing problem as a Multi-Armed Ban-
communicating between the two ends (i.e., Direct). However,
dit (MAB) problem, where each available path in the geo-
due to ignorance of the packet reordering lag, Via tend to
distributed environment is an arm of the bandit. Traditional
explore different routes to find paths with lower transmitting
MAB algorithms used in existing studies [5] selects average
latency, thus leading to higher jitter. As a result, Via has the
transmitting latency as the sole optimization objective for
highest packet reordering latency among the three as shown
routing. However, the high dynamicity of inter-DC network
in Figure 4b. By jointly considering packet transmitting and
latency leads to high variance in the rewards, which can
reordering, VCRoute obtains the lowest end-to-end latency.
significantlyimpacttheperformanceandeffectivenessofthese
The above results have shown the necessity to jointly con-
algorithms. To address the above challenges, we carefully
sider network latency and jitter during packet routing in
adapt the Thompson Sampling algorithm [25] to our MAB
video conferencing systems. This is especially important for
problem. Thompson Sampling can estimate the distribution
geo-distributed video conferencing, where the time-variation
function of transmitting latency for each arm, allowing for
andheterogeneityofWAN performancegetsmoresignificant.
the simultaneous consideration of both transmitting latency
Data packetstransmittedthroughthe WAN are usuallyout-
and its variance when routing, which can effectively handle
of-order and need to be reordered for good user experience.
uncertainty and high variance in the rewards of arms.
Existing studies mostly adopt jitter buffer to reorder packets
Low-latencyjittermanagement.Networkjitterdetermines
at the receivers’ end [22]. Although one can dynamically
the degree of disorder of the packets. The purpose of jitter
changebuffersizetoadaptsystemlatencytodifferentnetwork
management is to absorb the impact of jitter as much as
variations, jitter buffer is essentially an in-order-processing
possible, under a low latency. As mentioned above, existing
(IOP) method. The buffering mechanism inevitably causes
buffer-based jitter management is essentially doing in-order
latency penalty for all packets as they wait for stragglers to
processing and thus can cause unnecessary delay of packets
arrive [23]. However, the processing stage that comes after
in the buffer.In thispaper,we proposewatermark-basedjitter
packetreordering(e.g.,decoding)doesnotnecessarilyrequire
management [23] at users’ end. Watermarks are quantitative
all packets to be strictly in-order.
markers associated with a stream, indicating that no events
Inthispaper,wefoundthatitispossibletoleverageout-of-
in the stream will have a timestamp preceding that of the
order processing (OOP) paradigm to further reduce the
watermark. Thus, we can use watermarks to safely determine
latency of video conferencing systems. OOP is an archi-
whento emitpacketsandkeeptrackoftheprogressofpacket
tecture commonly used in streaming processing for flexible
handling.Noextralatencywillbeintroducedduetoexistence
and efficient execution of stream queries [24]. Compared to
of straggler packets.
conventionaljitter bufferbased approaches,OOP allowsmore
packets to come out of reordering in time while ensuring the
IV. VCROUTE SCHEDULER
required order, resulting in reduced latency. VCRoute provides a centralized routing scheduler for each
In summary, special features of geo-distributed network packet in the audio streams, so that the end-to-end latency of
require revisiting the routing and jitter handling in current the packets can be minimized.To achieve this goal, VCRoute
video conferencing systems to optimize end-to-end latency. needs to answer the following questions:
III. SYSTEMOVERVIEW • First, as VCRoute is designed to be centralized, how can
Motivated by the deficiencies of existing work, this paper we mitigatethesystem overheadintroducedbytransmitting
aims at proposing a low-latency video conferencing system schedulingdecisionstousersandendpoints?(SectionIV-A)
for geo-distributed DCs. We make two efforts to achieve this • Second, given the high latency and dynamicity of inter-DC
goal. First, we designed an application-aware routing mecha- network performance, how can VCRoute find a good path
nism named VCRoute, which jointly considers the network for each packet in a timely manner? (Section IV-B)

studied.However,thehigh-varianceanddynamicallychanging
|     |     |                  |     |     |         |     |     | reward                | distributions |          | of the                     | bandits    | could              | make      | traditional |
| --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | --- | ------- | --- | --- | --------------------- | ------------- | -------- | -------------------------- | ---------- | ------------------ | --------- | ----------- |
|     |     |                  |     |     |         |     |     | MAB algorithms        |               | such     | as UCB1                    | [26],      | [5] to             | choose    | path with   |
|     |     |                  |     |     |         |     |     | low average           | transmitting  |          | latency                    |            | but high variance. |           |             |
|     |     |                  |     |     |         |     |     | 1) Thompson           |               | Sampling |                            | algorithm: | In this            | paper,    | we care-    |
|     |     |                  |     |     |         |     |     | fully adapt           | the           | Thompson |                            | Sampling   | algorithm          | (TSA)     | [25] to     |
|     |     |                  |     |     |         |     |     | solve our             | MAB           | problem. | TSA                        | uses       | a Bayesian         | framework | to          |
|     |     |                  |     |     |         |     |     | modeltheuncertaintyin |               |          | rewarddistributionsofarms. |            |                    |           | Itstarts    |
|     |     | Fig. 6: Overview |     | of  | VCRoute |     |     |                       |               |          |                            |            |                    |           |             |
fromaguessthattherewardsfollowapriordistribution.When
We have carefully designed VCRoute to solve the above getting more evidence (real rewards), the TSA iteratively
questions. Figure 6 gives an overview of VCRoute. updates the hyperparameters of the prior and use them to
A. Reducing overhead maintainaposteriordistributionfollowingthesameparametric
|                     |             |              |            |                |           |                    |             | formasthe          | priordistribution.In |               |               | ourproblem,we          |                 |               | assumethat  |
| ------------------- | ----------- | ------------ | ---------- | -------------- | --------- | ------------------ | ----------- | ------------------ | -------------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------------------- | --------------- | ------------- | ----------- |
| Many                | existing    | routing      | algorithms |                | such      | as Via             | make one    |                    |                      |               |               |                        |                 |               |             |
|                     |             |              |            |                |           |                    |             | the likelihood     |                      | of the        | reward        | of each                | arm (i.e.,      | transmitting  | la-         |
| routing plan        | for         | an entire    | call       | at             | offline   | time.              | Thus, the   |                    |                      |               |               |                        |                 |               |             |
|                     |             |              |            |                |           |                    |             | tencyof            | each                 | path)followsa |               | Normaldistributionwith |                 |               | known       |
| scheduling          | overhead    | is           | not a      | major concern. |           | However,           | this        | is                 |                      |               |               |                        |                 |               |             |
|                     |             |              |            |                |           |                    |             | variance.The       |                      | variance      | can           | be calculated          | using           | historical    | calls       |
| not good            | enough      | for our      | problem    | due            | to the    | highly             | dynamic     |                    |                      |               |               |                        |                 |               |             |
|                     |             |              |            |                |           |                    |             | collected          | offline.             | Then,         | according     |                        | to Bayesian     |               | probability |
| and heterogeneous   |             | network      |            | performance    |           | in geo-distributed |             |                    |                      |               |               |                        |                 |               |             |
|                     |             |              |            |                |           |                    |             | theory,            | the prior            | and           | posterior     | probability            |                 | distributions | both        |
| video conferencing. |             | For          | example,   |                | in Figure | 4,                 | the Direct  |                    |                      |               |               |                        |                 |               |             |
|                     |             |              |            |                |           |                    |             | follow the         | Normal               | distribution  |               | with                   | hyperparameters |               | mean µ      |
| method which        | uses        | a fixed      | routing    | plan           | for       | an entire          | stream      |                    |                      |               |               |                        |                 |               |             |
|                     |             |              |            |                |           |                    |             | and variance       | σ2.                  | We            | use the       | observed               | rewards         | to            | update the  |
| leads to            | high packet | transmitting |            | time.          | On        | the                | other hand, |                    |                      |               |               |                        |                 |               |             |
|                     |             |              |            |                |           |                    |             | hyperparametersfor |                      |               | the posterior |                        | distribution.   |               |             |
makingdifferentroutingplansforeachindividualpacketleads
|                      |          |               |                         |             |     |          |            | Below           | we introduce |        | how           | the hyperparametersare |               |           | updated. |
| -------------------- | -------- | ------------- | ----------------------- | ----------- | --- | -------- | ---------- | --------------- | ------------ | ------ | ------------- | ---------------------- | ------------- | --------- | -------- |
| to high scheduling   |          | overhead.     |                         | We address  | the | overhead | issue      |                 |              |        |               |                        |               |           |          |
|                      |          |               |                         |             |     |          |            | For simplicity, |              | we use | precision     |                        | τ (τ = 1/σ2)  | instead   | of the   |
| from two             | aspects. |               |                         |             |     |          |            |                 |              |        |               |                        |               |           |          |
|                      |          |               |                         |             |     |          |            | variance        | σ2 to        | update | the posterior |                        | distribution. | According | to       |
| First, for           | each     | communicating |                         | <endpoint,  |     | user>    | pair, we   |                 |              |        |               |                        |               |           |          |
|                      |          |               |                         |             |     |          |            | Bayesian        | probability  |        | theory,       | we have:               |               |           |          |
| set a default        | routing  | plan.         |                         | All packets |     | in the   | stream are |                 |              |        |               |                        |               |           |          |
| scheduledaccordingto |          |               | the defaultplan.VCRoute |             |     |          | updatesthe |                 |              |        |               |                        |               |           |          |
|                      |          |               |                         |             |     |          |            |                 |              |        | τ ←τ          | +n∗τ                   |               |           | (1)      |
0
| default routing |     | plan according |     | to real-time |     | network | perfor- |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------- | --- | -------------- | --- | ------------ | --- | ------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
mance. Thus, we only need to transmit the routing decisions µ←(τ ∗µ+τ ∗P n +n∗τ
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | x   | )/(τ | )   | (2) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | --- |
when they are updated. As a result, we are able to greatly 0 i i 0
reducetheoverheadofthecentralizedscheduler.Forexample, whereτ istheprecisionofcalculatedusinghistoricalend-to-
0
in Figure 4, VCRoute transmits only 447 times of routing end latencytraces, is the numberof times the arm hasbeen
n
plans for 30,000 packets, resulting in a 1.5% extra overhead testedandx istheend-to-endlatencyreceivedatthei-thtest
i
| compared | to a | decentralized |     | design. | Further, | we  | found that | of the arm. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | ---- | ------------- | --- | ------- | -------- | --- | ---------- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
amongthe447timesofroutingplanupdates,only4pathsout
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | At each | time | step, | TSA | samples | reward | from the | posterior |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------- | ---- | ----- | --- | ------- | ------ | -------- | --------- |
of 17 were selected. This motivates our second optimization predictive normal distribution of each arm and select the arm
of selecting the top-k low-latency paths from all relay paths with the highest returned value. TSA transparently combines
to reduce the solution space (Stage 2 of Figure 6). The bothexplorationandexploitation.Onceanarmistestedanda
top-k paths are obtained based on the analysis of long-term rewardisobtained,thebeliefinthelikelihoodoftherewardof
| network | performance | history. |     | Similar | to Via | [5], | the k value |          |                |     |                             |     |     |     |       |
| ------- | ----------- | -------- | --- | ------- | ------ | ---- | ----------- | -------- | -------------- | --- | --------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | ----- |
|         |             |          |     |         |        |      |             | that arm | is modified.By |     | employingsamplingstrategies |     |     |     | based |
is dynamically decided based on confidence bounds for each on posterior probabilities associated with the optimality of
relayonaspecific<endpoint,user>pair(referto[5]formore different actions, the algorithm ensures continued exploration
details). By using these confidence bounds to dynamically of all actions that hold plausible optimality potential while
decide the top-k relaying options, it ensures that any relay reducing sampling emphasis on actions deemed less likely to
| optionnotincludedin |     | the | top-kis | worsethan |     | anythatis | with |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------- | --- | --- | ------- | --------- | --- | --------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
be optimal.
| a high degree  | of  | confidence. |          | Given  | the pruned |           | set of relay |            |                    |     |         |        |               |      |           |
| -------------- | --- | ----------- | -------- | ------ | ---------- | --------- | ------------ | ---------- | ------------------ | --- | ------- | ------ | ------------- | ---- | --------- |
|                |     |             |          |        |            |           |              |            | V. WATERMARK-BASED |     |         |        | JITTERMANAGER |      |           |
| paths, VCRoute |     | selects     | the path | that   | results    | in the    | best end-    |            |                    |     |         |        |               |      |           |
| to-end latency | at  | runtime,    | with     | a much | lower      | overhead. |              |            |                    |     |         |        |               |      |           |
|                |     |             |          |        |            |           |              | The jitter | manager            |     | sits on | packet | receivers’    | side | to ensure |
B. Making good routing decisions orderedemitofpackets.Toachievelow-latencyaudiostream-
Given the top-k paths, we design an online routing method ing, we propose a novel jitter management method named
|                |     |            |      |      |          |        |        | WMJitter | using | the | watermark-based |     | OOP | mechanism. | We  |
| -------------- | --- | ---------- | ---- | ---- | -------- | ------ | ------ | -------- | ----- | --- | --------------- | --- | --- | ---------- | --- |
| to dynamically |     | select the | best | path | for each | packet | (Stage |          |       |     |                 |     |     |            |     |
3 of Figure 6). As mentioned previously, selecting the best mainly address the following challenges:
path from the k options can be defined as a classic MAB • No existing studies have considered watermarks for jitter
problem. Each path can be considered as an arm of the management in video conferencing systems. How can we
bandit, and the transmitting latency of the path is used as the usewatermarkstohandledisorderpacketswithlowlatency?
| reward of | the arm. | The | MAB | problem | has | been | extensively | (Section | V-A) |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | -------- | --- | --- | ------- | --- | ---- | ----------- | -------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

Algorithm 1 Main process of WMJitter. TABLE I: Location of endpoints and users
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | Provider |     | EndpointLocation |     |     | UserLocation |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------- | --- | ---------------- | --- | --- | ------------ | --- | --- |
1: Q,O←Null;
2: Whenapacketparrives:
Tokyo,Guangzhou,
3: ifp.ts<wmthen Tencent Singapore,Frankfurt, Shenzhen, Singapore,
|                       |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | cloud |     |          |     | HongKong |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----- | --- | -------- | --- | -------- | --- | --- |
| 4: Discardpandreturn; |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |       |     | SaoPaulo |     |          |     |     |
5:
Q∪{p};
6: lag=CalculateLag(p); Brazil, Australia, Argentina, Indonesia,
Wonder
| 7: wm=UpdateWM(wm,p,lag); |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |       | Singapore,    | South |     | Uganda, | United    |     |
| ------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----- | ------------- | ----- | --- | ------- | --------- | --- |
| 8: forpinQdo              |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | Proxy | Africa,Greece |       |     | States, | Lithuania |     |
9: ifp.ts<wmthen
10: O∪{p}andQ.pop(p);
11: SortandoutputpacketsinO;
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | Thelag | isakeyparameterthatdirectlyimpactsthebalance |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | -------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
betweenbufferingdelayandlossrate.Alargerlagleadstoin-
|              |              |     |        |            |       |        |        | creased   | bufferingdelay |          | and reducedloss |              | rate, | while | a smaller  |
| ------------ | ------------ | --- | ------ | ---------- | ----- | ------ | ------ | --------- | -------------- | -------- | --------------- | ------------ | ----- | ----- | ---------- |
| • Existing   | buffer-based |     | jitter | management | adapt | buffer | sizes  |           |                |          |                 |              |       |       |            |
|              |              |     |        |            |       |        |        | lag leads | to an          | opposite | scenario.       | Intuitively, |       | a lag | value that |
| to trade-off | buffering    |     | delay  | and packet | loss. | How    | can we |           |                |          |                 |              |       |       |            |
closelyapproximatesthereal-timejitteroftransmittinglatency
| achieve          | the same | goal       | using | watermarks? | (Section   | V-B) |     |                   |     |         |                        |        |       |          |          |
| ---------------- | -------- | ---------- | ----- | ----------- | ---------- | ---- | --- | ----------------- | --- | ------- | ---------------------- | ------ | ----- | -------- | -------- |
|                  |          |            |       |             |            |      |     | optimizes         | the | balance | between                | buffer | delay | and loss | rate. To |
| A. Incorporating |          | Watermarks |       | in Jitter   | Management |      |     |                   |     |         |                        |        |       |          |          |
|                  |          |            |       |             |            |      |     | enableadaptiveand |     | timely  | watermarkadjustment,we |        |       |          | employ   |
Weproposetheintegrationofwatermarkstoprovideprecise the window-based statistical method of estimating jitter used
indications of streaming packet progress. Specifically, any in WebRTC NetEQ module [12] to determine the lag value.
| newly arriving |     | packet | with | a timestamp | greater | than | the |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | ------ | ---- | ----------- | ------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
watermark is deemed timely, while packets arriving later are VI. EVALUATION
considered tardy and subsequently discarded. Timely packets To evaluate the effectiveness of our design on reducing
are retained in the buffer, awaiting output. Upon updating the the end-to-end latency of video conferencing systems, we
watermark,packetsinthebufferthatpossesstimestampslower
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | perform | experiments |     | using network |     | performance | traces | from |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------- | ----------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ----------- | ------ | ---- |
than the new watermark are sorted and output collectively. real geo-distributed environments. Our trace-driven simulator
Our watermark-based OOP method effectively reduces the is implemented based on WebRTC [12].
reorderingtimeandwaitingtimecomparedtotheconventional
|          |              |     |            |          |          |           |     | A. Experimental |     | Setup |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | ------------ | --- | ---------- | -------- | -------- | --------- | --- | --------------- | --- | ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| approach | of selecting |     | the packet | with the | smallest | timestamp |     |                 |     |       |     |     |     |     |     |
when the buffer reaches its capacity. Geo-distributed setting. We perform our experiments
Algorithm 1 shows the main process of WMJitter. Specifi- based on the network performancetraces collected from Ten-
cally, when a packet arrives at the receiver,the jitter manager cent cloud [16] and WonderProxy [27], as shown in Table I.
first estimates the jitter of the packet transmitting lag (Line With Tencent cloud, we select five data centers as the
6) and updates the watermark accordingly (Line 7). It then geo-distributed environment. One S5.Medium2 instance is
determines which packets can safely be sorted and output by launchedineachdatacenterastheendpoint/relaypoint.Three
comparing the updated watermark and the timestamps of the usersaresetuplocallyusingserverslocatedinShenzhen,Hong
packetsthathavenotyetbeenoutput(Line8-11).Inthisway, Kong and Singapore (outside of Tencent cloud). To measure
|              |               |     |             |          |             |     |     | the network | performance, |         | we      | send       | one packet | every | 10ms      |
| ------------ | ------------- | --- | ----------- | -------- | ----------- | --- | --- | ----------- | ------------ | ------- | ------- | ---------- | ---------- | ----- | --------- |
| WMJitter     | can guarantee |     | ordered     | delivery | of packets. |     |     |             |              |         |         |            |            |       |           |
|              |               |     |             |          |             |     |     | between     | each         | pair of | servers | and record | the        | round | trip time |
| B. Balancing | Latency       |     | with Packet | Loss     |             |     |     |             |              |         |         |            |            |       |           |
|              |               |     |             |          |             |     |     | (RTT). Each | measurement  |         | lasts   | for 100    | minutes.   |       |           |
Todynamicallystrikeabalancebetweenlatencyandpacket
|            |            |     |         |                       |     |     |         | WonderProxy |     | provides | a global | network | of  | 250 servers | for |
| ---------- | ---------- | --- | ------- | --------------------- | --- | --- | ------- | ----------- | --- | -------- | -------- | ------- | --- | ----------- | --- |
| loss rate, | we propose |     | a novel | event-drivenwatermark |     |     | genera- |             |     |          |          |         |     |             |     |
businessestosimulatewebtrafficfromdifferentcountriesand
tionmethod(i.e.,theUpdateWM()functioninAlgorithm1) regions. We adopt five servers as endpoints/relays and five
| that adapts    | to the | changing | network  | conditions. |          |           |     |         |           |          |     |            |     |         |         |
| -------------- | ------ | -------- | -------- | ----------- | -------- | --------- | --- | ------- | --------- | -------- | --- | ---------- | --- | ------- | ------- |
|                |        |          |          |             |          |           |     | servers | as users, | as shown | in  | the table. | The | latency | between |
| The UpdateWM() |        |          | function | uses an     | adaptive | watermark |     |         |           |          |     |            |     |         |         |
eachpairofserversareadoptedfromtheonedaymeasurement
| generation | algorithm  | to      | indicate | the progress | of  | data  | streams |             |              |     |        |          |       |     |     |
| ---------- | ---------- | ------- | -------- | ------------ | --- | ----- | ------- | ----------- | ------------ | --- | ------ | -------- | ----- | --- | --- |
|            |            |         |          |              |     |       |         | using Ping, | open-sourced |     | by the | provider | [27]. |     |     |
| affected   | by network | jitter. | Upon     | the arrival  | of  | a new | packet, |             |              |     |        |          |       |     |     |
AsshowninFigure7,whichillustratestheaveragenetwork
we calculate an alternative watermark by subtracting the performanceandvariance,the two platformshaveverydiffer-
| timestamp | with | a designated |     | lag, subsequently |     | selecting | the |               |        |     |         |         |             |     |         |
| --------- | ---- | ------------ | --- | ----------------- | --- | --------- | --- | ------------- | ------ | --- | ------- | ------- | ----------- | --- | ------- |
|           |      |              |     |                   |     |           |     | ent features. | First, | the | latency | between | WonderProxy |     | servers |
largervaluebetweenthealternativewatermarkandthecurrent
|           |        |         |            |           |     |     |     | are higher  | and     | more    | dynamic   | than | Tencent  | cloud.       | Second, |
| --------- | ------ | ------- | ---------- | --------- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | ------- | ------- | --------- | ---- | -------- | ------------ | ------- |
| watermark | as the | updated | watermark. | Formally: |     |     |     |             |         |         |           |      |          |              |         |
|           |        |         |            |           |     |     |     | the network | latency | between | different |      | <source, | destination> |         |
=max(LPWM,p.ts−lag) pairs of WonderProxy are less heterogeneous. Since the two
|     | WM  |     |     |     |     |     | (3) |           |        |       |                |     |           |            |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------- | ------ | ----- | -------------- | --- | --------- | ---------- | --- |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | platforms | differ | a lot | on the network |     | features, | we believe | our |
where LPWM (last published watermark) represents the trace-driven evaluation results are representative to show the
watermark before the update, p.ts represents the timestamp effectiveness of our proposed algorithms.
of the new packet, and lag represents the tolerated delay for Compared approaches. To show the superiority of our
late data due to network fluctuations. The max operation in methods, we adopt three routing methods and two jitter
the equation ensures that the watermark is non-decreasing, management approaches for comparison. End-to-end latency
indicating that packets are progressing with time. is the main metric for comparing different approaches.

(cid:39) (cid:54) (cid:72) (cid:87)(cid:68) (cid:89) (cid:81) (cid:76)(cid:68) (cid:71) (cid:87) (cid:68) (cid:76) (cid:85) (cid:82) (cid:71) (cid:81) (cid:39) (cid:54) (cid:72) (cid:87)(cid:68) (cid:89) (cid:81) (cid:76)(cid:68) (cid:71) (cid:87) (cid:68) (cid:76) (cid:85) (cid:82) (cid:71) (cid:81) figures, and thus are not plotted. We have the following
(cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:21) (cid:23)(cid:25)(cid:20) (cid:27)(cid:23)(cid:24) (cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:19) (cid:21)(cid:27)(cid:19) (cid:22)(cid:28)(cid:23) (cid:21)(cid:20)(cid:21) (cid:23)(cid:19)(cid:21) (cid:21)(cid:27)(cid:27) (cid:19) (cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:25) (cid:22)(cid:28)(cid:17)(cid:21) (cid:22)(cid:17)(cid:20)(cid:21) (cid:26)(cid:24)(cid:17)(cid:28) (cid:21)(cid:22)(cid:25) (cid:23)(cid:24)(cid:17)(cid:22) (cid:22)(cid:23)(cid:27) (cid:19) observations.
(cid:22)(cid:25)(cid:23) (cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:25) (cid:27)(cid:26)(cid:21) (cid:21)(cid:28)(cid:28) (cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:28) (cid:22)(cid:28)(cid:19) (cid:22)(cid:28)(cid:20) (cid:27)(cid:22)(cid:17)(cid:26) (cid:19) (cid:21)(cid:27)(cid:27) (cid:22)(cid:27)(cid:26) (cid:22)(cid:21)(cid:25) (cid:22)(cid:22)(cid:27) (cid:21)(cid:27)(cid:25) (cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:23) (cid:22)(cid:23)(cid:20) (cid:19) (cid:22)(cid:23)(cid:27) First,acrossallthemeetingsessionshostedindifferentdata
(cid:22)(cid:26)(cid:25) (cid:26)(cid:28)(cid:17)(cid:20) (cid:27)(cid:19)(cid:24) (cid:23)(cid:19)(cid:28) (cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:22) (cid:21)(cid:28)(cid:23) (cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:22) (cid:19) (cid:27)(cid:22)(cid:17)(cid:26) (cid:23)(cid:19)(cid:21) (cid:25)(cid:17)(cid:19)(cid:20) (cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:17)(cid:25) (cid:22)(cid:19)(cid:28) (cid:27)(cid:26)(cid:17)(cid:28) (cid:21)(cid:24)(cid:23) (cid:19) (cid:22)(cid:23)(cid:20) (cid:23)(cid:24)(cid:17)(cid:22) centers, VCR-WM obtains the best end-to-end latency for all
(cid:22)(cid:26)(cid:26) (cid:23)(cid:27)(cid:22) (cid:27)(cid:27) (cid:23)(cid:21)(cid:24) (cid:20)(cid:27)(cid:23) (cid:21)(cid:25)(cid:26) (cid:19) (cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:22) (cid:22)(cid:28)(cid:20) (cid:21)(cid:20)(cid:21)
(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:28) (cid:22)(cid:25)(cid:27) (cid:26)(cid:19)(cid:27) (cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:27) (cid:26)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:28) (cid:19) (cid:21)(cid:25)(cid:26) (cid:21)(cid:28)(cid:23) (cid:22)(cid:28)(cid:19) (cid:22)(cid:28)(cid:23) (cid:21)(cid:23)(cid:23) (cid:20)(cid:26)(cid:24) (cid:20)(cid:25)(cid:20) (cid:21)(cid:22)(cid:26) (cid:19) (cid:21)(cid:24)(cid:23) (cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:23) (cid:21)(cid:22)(cid:25) users distributed globally, while DRT-BF obtains the worst
(cid:26)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:28) (cid:20)(cid:27)(cid:23) (cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:22) (cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:28) (cid:21)(cid:27)(cid:19) (cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:22) (cid:26)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:26) (cid:27)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:23) (cid:19) (cid:21)(cid:22)(cid:26) (cid:27)(cid:26)(cid:17)(cid:28) (cid:21)(cid:27)(cid:25) (cid:26)(cid:24)(cid:17)(cid:28) results in most cases. Take the results of Greece endpoint as
(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:27) (cid:23)(cid:21)(cid:24) (cid:23)(cid:19)(cid:28) (cid:21)(cid:28)(cid:28) (cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:19) (cid:27)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:23) (cid:20)(cid:25)(cid:20) (cid:22)(cid:19)(cid:28) (cid:22)(cid:22)(cid:27) (cid:22)(cid:17)(cid:20)(cid:21)
(cid:26)(cid:19)(cid:27) (cid:27)(cid:27) (cid:27)(cid:19)(cid:24) (cid:27)(cid:26)(cid:21) (cid:27)(cid:23)(cid:24) an example. Figures 8c shows that, VCR-WM guarantees all
(cid:26)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:26) (cid:20)(cid:26)(cid:24) (cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:17)(cid:25) (cid:22)(cid:21)(cid:25) (cid:22)(cid:28)(cid:17)(cid:21)
(cid:22)(cid:25)(cid:27) (cid:23)(cid:27)(cid:22) (cid:26)(cid:28)(cid:17)(cid:20) (cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:25) (cid:23)(cid:25)(cid:20) packets to arrive within 640ms for users located in Uganda,
(cid:28583)(cid:28581)(cid:28589) (cid:28583)(cid:28587)(cid:28587) (cid:28583)(cid:28587)(cid:28586) (cid:28583)(cid:28586)(cid:28584) (cid:28581)(cid:28582)(cid:28582) (cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:22) (cid:21)(cid:23)(cid:23) (cid:25)(cid:17)(cid:19)(cid:20) (cid:22)(cid:27)(cid:26) (cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:25)
which is even lower than the shortest end-to-end latency
results obtained by DRT-BF. Compared to VIA-BF, VCR-
(a) WonderProxy (b) Tencent Cloud
WMreducestheaverageend-to-endlatencyby4%-13%.Note
Fig. 7: Average network performance and variance on two
that, for some cases, the VCR-WM and DRT-WM obtains
platforms. Values in the figure represent average latency (ms)
similarend-to-endlatencyresults(i.e.,<ZA,UserAR>).This
and the temperature represent standard deviation.
is because that the best relay path is the direct path, and the
transmitting latency is far less than the other paths. Similarly,
We evaluate the following routing methods: for some cases, the VCR-WM and VIA-WM obtains similar
• Directisthebaselineroutingmethodthattransmitsapacket end-to-endlatencyresults(i.e.,<SG,UserUGA>)becausethe
directly from the source to target (DRT for short). best path is far better than others. Comparing different users
• Via[5]isanonlineroutingalgorithmwhichselectsthebest in the same meeting session, users closer to the endpoint are
overlay path for each meeting session to minimize the data more likely to obtain better video conferencing experiences.
transmittinglatency.For faircomparison,we use itto make For example, Lithuania, which is also in Europe as Greece,
the best routing decision for each packet. Via is considered is geographically the closest to the endpoint and thus has the
as the state-of-the-art comparison. lowest average end-to-end latency among all users. What’s
• VCRoute is the routingmethod proposedin this paper that more, all compared methods work similarly for Lithuania,
minimizes the end-to-end latency for each single packet since the direct route has much lower transmitting latency
(VCR for short). comparedtotheotherrelayroutes.Asaresult,Direct,Viaand
VCRouteallselectthesamedirectpath.Thisfurtherincreases
We consider the following jitter management approaches:
the stability of latency and reduces jitter.
• Jitter Buffer represents the standard jitter buffer algorithm
Second,tostudytheeffectivenessofWMJitter,wecompare
usedintheNetEQmoduleofWebRTC[12].Thebuffersize
the results of DRT-BF with those of DRT-WM and the results
is dynamically changed to accommodate the varying jitter
of VIA-BF with those of VIA-WM. As shown in Figure 7a,
conditions (BF for short).
the network performance between endpoints and users IDN,
• WMJitter is the watermark-based jitter management
UGAandUSaremuchmoredynamicthantheothertwousers.
method proposed in this paper (WM for short).
As a result, we have observed much higher improvement of
Putting it all together, we compare five different system
the watermark-basedjitter managementmethodscompared to
solutions, namely DRT-BF, DRT-WM, VIA-BF, VIA-WM
the buffer-based method on reducing the end-to-end latency.
and VCR-WM. VCR-WM stands for the optimized video Forexample,DRT-WMreducestheend-to-endlatencyby8%-
conferencing system of this paper.
12%,9%-16%and10%-16%comparedtoDRT-BFforclients
Configurations. For each geo-distributedsetting, we simu- in IDN, UGA and US, respectively, across the three meeting
late five meeting sessions hosted on the five endpointservers. sessions. Similarly, VIA-WM reduces the end-to-end latency
When one endpoint is selected to host a meeting, the other by 8%-13%, 2%-9% and 5%-10% compared to VIA-BF for
four endpoints are adopted as relays. As we only consider clients in IDN, UGA and US, respectively, across the three
relay routes with less than two hops, there are 17 possible meeting sessions. The above results have demonstrated the
paths for each <endpoint, user> pair. For each meeting, effectiveness of WMJitter.
600,000packetsaresentbetweeneach <endpoint,user>pair 2) End-to-endlatencyonTencentCloud: Evaluationresults
to simulate a meeting session of 100 minutes long. During onTencentcloudhasshownsimilarobservationsasthosefrom
the packet handling, some late packets are droppedand cause WonderProxy.Below weonlydiscussthe differencesbetween
packetloss. We reportthelossrateandtheend-to-endlatency Tencent cloud and WonderProxy.
of successful packets as evaluation metrics. Figure 11 and 12 show the CDFs of end-to-endlatency re-
sultsofusersobtainedbyVCR-WM,DRT-WMandVIA-WM
B. Trace-Driven Evaluation Results
whenmeetingsarehostedontheTokyoandSaoPauloservers.
1) End-to-end latency on WonderProxy: To compare the We deliberately removed the results of DRT-BF and VIA-BF
end-to-end latency results obtained by different methods, we from the figures since they performed very closely to DRT-
plot the CDFs of streaming lag experienced by clients in WM and VIA-WM due to the low variances of the network
Figures8-10.ResultsofmeetingsessionshostedontheBrazil performances. On these two cases, VCR-WM obtains much
and Australia endpoints are similar to those shown in the lower end-to-end latency compared to VIA-WM and DRT-

|     |  VCR-WM |     |     |  VCR-WM |     |     |     |     |     |  VCR-WM |     |     |
| --- | ------- | --- | --- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------- | --- | --- |
 VCR-WM
 VCR-WM
(a) GR-UserAR (b) GR-UserIDN (c) GR-UserUGA (d) GR-UserUS (e) GR-UserLT
Fig. 8: End-to-end latency (ms) of a meeting session with endpoint located in Greece (WonderProxy).
 VCR-WM
|     |  VCR-WM |     |     |     |     |     |  VCR-WM |     |     |  VCR-WM |     |  VCR-WM |
| --- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------- | --- | --- | ------- | --- | ------- |
(a) ZA-UserAR (b) ZA-UserIDN (c) ZA-UserUGA (d) ZA-UserUS (e) ZA-UserLT
Fig. 9: End-to-end latency (ms) of a meeting session with endpoint located in South Africa (WonderProxy).
|     |  VCR-WM |     |     |  VCR-WM |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |  VCR-WM |
| --- | ------- | --- | --- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------- |
 VCR-WM
 VCR-WM
(a) SG-UserAR (b) SG-UserIDN (c) SG-UserUGA (d) SG-UserUS (e) SG-UserLT
Fig. 10: End-to-end latency (ms) of a meeting session with endpoint located in Singapore (WonderProxy).
| WM. | For | example, the | 50%-percentile |     | latency | of  | VCR-WM |             |     |     |     |         |
| --- | --- | ------------ | -------------- | --- | ------- | --- | ------ | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | ------- |
|     |     |              |                |     |         |     |        | 1.0  DRT-WM |     |     | 1.0 |  DRT-WM |
is 0%-16% and 6%-18% lower than those of DRT-WM and  VIA-WM  VIA-WM
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | 0.8  VCR-WM |     |     | 0.8 |  VCR-WM |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----------- | --- | --- | --- | ------- |
VIA-WM,respectively.Thisdemonstratestheeffectivenessof FDC FDC
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | 0.6 |     |     | 0.6 |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
VCRoute on finding better routes than other state-of-the-art 0.4 0.4
| routing | schedulers | for           | video | conferencing |       | systems. |              | 0.2                               |     |     | 0.2                             |                |
| ------- | ---------- | ------------- | ----- | ------------ | ----- | -------- | ------------ | --------------------------------- | --- | --- | ------------------------------- | -------------- |
|         |            |               |       |              |       |          |              | 0.0 0 50                          | 100 | 150 | 200 0.0 0                       | 50 100 150 200 |
|         |            |               |       |              |       |          |              | (a) End-to-end Latency TYO-UserSZ |     |     | (b)ETnYd-Oto--eUnds LeartSenGcy |                |
| 3)      | Loss       | rate results: | We    | further      | study | the      | loss rate of |                                   |     |     |                                 |                |
audio streams resulted from different comparisons. Figure 13 Fig. 11: End-to-end latency (ms) of a meeting session with
|       |     |                   |     |             |     |         |         | endpoint located |     | in Tokyo | (Tencent). |     |
| ----- | --- | ----------------- | --- | ----------- | --- | ------- | ------- | ---------------- | --- | -------- | ---------- | --- |
| shows | the | loss rate results |     | per meeting |     | session | on both |                  |     |          |            |     |
WonderProxyandTencentcloud.Asexpected,thelossrateon
| WonderProxy                       |                                         | is in general                            | much       | larger | than               | that     | on Tencent    |                     |           |              |            |                      |
| --------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ---------- | ------ | ------------------ | -------- | ------------- | ------------------- | --------- | ------------ | ---------- | -------------------- |
| cloud,dueto                       |                                         | themuchhighernetworkperformancevariances |            |        |                    |          |               |                     |           |              |            |                      |
|                                   |                                         |                                          |            |        |                    |          |               |  VCR-WM             |           |              |            |  VCR-WM              |
| on WonderProxy.                   |                                         | The                                      | loss rates | of     | meeting            | sessions | using         |                     |           |              |            |                      |
| Direct                            | routing                                 | on Tencent                               | cloud      | are    | almost             | zero     | since there’s |                     |           |              |            |                      |
| no significant                    |                                         | jitter on                                | the route. | Thus   | no                 | packet   | arrives too   |                     |           |              |            |                      |
| late                              | to be                                   | dropped. In                              | contrary,  | the    | loss rate          | is high  | even on       |                     |           |              |            |                      |
|                                   |                                         |                                          |            |        |                    |          |               | (a)                 | SP-UserSZ |              |            | (b) SP-UserSG        |
| directroutesonWonderProxyduetothe |                                         |                                          |            |        | highnetworkperfor- |          |               |                     |           |              |            |                      |
|                                   |                                         |                                          |            |        |                    |          |               | Fig. 12: End-to-end |           | latency      | (ms) of a  | meeting session with |
| mance                             | variances.Further,watermark-basedjitter |                                          |            |        |                    |          | management    |                     |           |              |            |                      |
|                                   |                                         |                                          |            |        |                    |          |               | endpoint located    |           | in Sao Paulo | (Tencent). |                      |
| method                            | can                                     | slightly reduce                          | the        | loss   | rate compared      |          | to buffer-    |                     |           |              |            |                      |
| based                             | methods.                                | For example,DRT-WM                       |            |        | and                | VIA-WM   | reduce        |                     |           |              |            |                      |
the loss rate by 2%-3% and 2%-4% compared to DRT-BF 4) System overhead: With our top-k pruning,the overhead
(∼0.3ms
and VIA-BF, respectively, on WonderProxy. The Via routing of VCRoute searching for the best route is very low
method (i.e., VIA-BF and VIA-WM) generated much higher for each packet). Due to the centralized design of VCRoute,
loss rates on Tencent cloud than the other methods, due to its the main overheadintroducedby our system to audio streams
tendency to explore which leads to more path changes. For comesfromtheextratimeneededtotransferroutingdecisions
example, there are 34,020 times of path changes with Via for from endpoints to users. Figure 14 shows the additional
the <Tokyo, Shenzhen> data stream with 600,000 packets. overhead per packet caused by transmitting routing decisions
AlthoughVCRoutealso exploresduringthesearchforagood for each meeting session hosted on different endpoints in
route, it deliberately reduces the number of path changes to WonderProxyandTencent.Similar to ourobservationsabove,
reduce network jitter. In all cases, VCR-WM yields lower or theadditionaloverheadislargerforuserswithhighernetwork
comparable packet loss rates compared to the other methods, variances (e.g., UserIDN on WonderProxy and UserSG on
while providing much lower end-to-end latency. Tencent). The largest overhead for UserIDN is 9.1ms, which

5
4
3
2
1
0
BR AUS SG ZA GR
)%(
etaR
ssoL
DRT-BF
D VI R A T - - B W F M 3.0
VIA-WM 2.5 VCR-WM
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
(a) WonderProxy TYO FRA GZ SP SG
)%(
etaR
ssoL
DRT-BF
DRT-WM VIA-BF
VIA-WM
VCR-WM
(b) Tencent cloud
Fig. 13: Overall loss rate of meeting sessions hosted on
different endpoints in WonderProxy and Tencent.
10
9.1 GR
9 ZA
SG
8 6.9
0.20.1
0 User A R UserI D N User U G A User US UserLT
)sm(
daehrevO
8
TYO 7.2
7 SP
1.0
0 UserSZ User H K UserS G
(a) WonderProxy
)sm(
daehrevO
users in different regions can have big difference streaming
lag. Hu et al. [31] proposed to enhancing video quality at
the endpoint without changing the transmitting condition of
the video. Although these studies shed some lights on how
to model video conferencing systems, none of them have
addressed the latency issues studied in this paper.
B. Data Stream Processing
Datastreamprocessingresearchhasdelvedintoparallelism,
synchronization, and resource optimization. Zhang et al. [32]
introduced BriskStream, a NUMA-aware in-memory system
for shared-memory multicore architectures. Mencagli et al.
[33] developed a framework for parallel continuous pref-
erence queries on out-of-order, bursty data streams. Traub
et al. [34] presented Scotty, a high-throughput operator for
streaming window aggregation, while Miao et al. [35] es-
tablished StreamBox, an engine for out-of-order record pro-
cessing on multicore servers. Zhang et al. [36] developed
(b) Tencent cloud
TStream, supporting efficient concurrent state access with
Fig. 14: Additional overhead per packet of VCRoute
dynamicrestructuringexecution.Distinguishingourwork,we
introducewatermark-basedjitter management,departingfrom
is neglectable compared to the end-to-end latency per packet
traditional buffer-based approaches, enabling more efficient
as shown in Figure 9b. It meansthatour designintroducesan
dataprocessingandfurtherreducinglatencyingeo-distributed
additional overhead less than 1% of the average end-to-end
environments.
latency for each packet.
C. Geo-distributed Stream Processing
C. Discussions
Network optimizations for geo-distributed stream process-
The above results show that our proposed methods are ef-
ing have aimed to minimize communication costs, balance
fective and efficient to differentgeo-distributedenvironments.
resource utilization, and adapt to bandwidth capacities. Gu
• VCRoute is effective for DCs with highly heterogeneous et al. [37] developed a framework for communication cost
network, as demonstrated by the results on Tencent cloud. minimizationusingVMplacementandflowbalancing.Rabkin
• The WM-based jitter manager is effective for highly dy- et al. [38] created JetStream, a wide-area data analysis sys-
namic network environments (i.e., high jitter) as demon- tem addressing bandwidth limitations. Zhang et al. [39] pre-
strated by the results on WonderProxy. sented AWStream, offering low latency and high accuracy
• Ourmethodsintroducesanadditionaloverheadlessthan1% in bandwidth-constrained operations. Liu et al. [40] designed
of the average end-to-end latency and can scale well with Bellini, a system for rapid prototyping of inter-datacenter
the increase of network sizes. protocols and efficient VM resource utilization. Xu and Li
VII. RELATEDWORK [41]optimizedjointrequestmappingandresponseroutingfor
distributeddatacenters.Zhaoetal.[42]designedHPS+,aco-
A. Conferencing Systems
ordinatedtask schedulingandroutingsystem. Mostafaeietal.
Wu et al. [17] presented a conferencing system vSkyConf,
[43] devisedSNR, a workernodeplacementapproachbalanc-
whichusedecentralizedroutingalgorithmtoreducestreaming
ingbandwidth,latency,andcost.Lietal.[44]extendedSpark
latency. vSkyConf also adapt streaming rate according to the
Streaming for optimal task scheduling and data flow routing.
bandwidthlimitation,andutilizebufferfrostreamingsynchro-
Zoom [45] ensures optimized connection paths through geo-
nization. Fouladi et al. [22] proposed to achieve low-latency
distributed infrastructure. Our work advance state-of-the-art
video streaming by integrating video codec and transport
through application-aware network routing and watermark-
protocol. Yan et al. [28] used a neural network to predict
based low-latency jitter management, offering new strategies
the transfer time of a chunk in a video, which is used for
foroptimizinglow-latencysystems,focusingonvideoconfer-
decision of bit rate selection for video streaming. Fang et al.
encing applications in geo-distributed environments.
[29]alsochoosetocontrolthesendingrateofvideostreaming
based on the bandwidth evaluation on the receiver. It used
VIII. CONCLUSION
a RL-based method to change the sending rate. Zhang et In this paper, we address two challenges for video con-
al. [30] also proposed to adapt transport protocol and video ferencing systems across geo-distributed DCs. First, existing
codec based on network dynamics. It proposed to train a RL- routing methods mainly focus on minimizing packet trans-
based model online, and used it to predict network dynamics. mitting latency, which does not necessarily translate to low
Changetal.[3]presentedadetailedmeasurementstudywhich end-to-end latency. In response, we introduced VCRoute,
compares Zoom, Webex and Google Meet. They found that an application-specific packet routing technique that jointly

| considers | network | transmission |     | time | and packet | reordering |               |         |          |          |            |               |      |
| --------- | ------- | ------------ | --- | ---- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------- | ------- | -------- | -------- | ---------- | ------------- | ---- |
|           |         |              |     |      |            |            | [21] B. Renl, | D. Guo, | G. Tang, | W. Wang, | L.Luo, and | X. Fu, “Sruf: | Low- |
latencypathroutingwithsrv6underlayfederationinwideareanetwork,”
| time to reduce | end-to-end |     | latency. | Second, | inter-DC | network |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | ---------- | --- | -------- | ------- | -------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
inICDCS’21,2021,pp.910–920.
| latency can | drastically | fluctuate, |     | resulting | in  | high jitter detri- |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | --- | --------- | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
[22] S.Fouladi,J.Emmons,E.Orbay,C.Wu,R.S.Wahby,andK.Winstein,
| mental to | video conferencing |     | applications. |     | Traditional | buffer- |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------- | ------------------ | --- | ------------- | --- | ----------- | ------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
“Salsify:Low-latencynetworkvideothroughtighterintegrationbetween
basedjitter managementmethodsoftenintroduceunnecessary avideo codec and atransport protocol,” inNSDI ’18,USA, 2018, pp.
267–282.
| delays, especially |     | when | handling | stragglers. |     | To overcome |                |           |             |           |                     |     |     |
| ------------------ | --- | ---- | -------- | ----------- | --- | ----------- | -------------- | --------- | ----------- | --------- | ------------------- | --- | --- |
|                    |     |      |          |             |     |             | [23] T.Akidau, | E.Begoli, | S.Chernyak, | F.Hueske, | K.Knight,K.Knowles, |     |     |
this, we proposed WMJitter, a watermark-based Out-of-Order D.Mills,andD.Sotolongo,“Watermarksinstreamprocessingsystems:
Processing mechanism tailored to manage jitter at the users’ Semantics and comparative analysis of apache flink and google cloud
dataflow,”VLDB’21,vol.14,no.12,pp.3135–3147,jul2021.
| end. Evaluationsusing |     | two | distinct | real-world |     | geo-distributed |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --------------------- | --- | --- | -------- | ---------- | --- | --------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
[24] J.Li,K.Tufte,V.Shkapenyuk,V.Papadimos,T.Johnson,andD.Maier,
environments have demonstrated the efficacy and viability of “Out-of-order processing: A new architecture for high-performance
ourproposedsolutionsonenhancingtheperformanceofvideo streamsystems,”VLDB’08,vol.1,no.1,pp.274–288,2008.
[25] O.ChapelleandL.Li,“Anempiricalevaluationofthompsonsampling,”
| conferencing | systems. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------ | -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
inNIPS’11,2011,pp.2249–2257.
REFERENCES [26] P. Auer, “Finite-time analysis of the multiarmed bandit problem,” in
Advancesinneuralinformationprocessingsystems,2002,pp.160–167.
[1] B. Dean, “Zoom User Stats: How Many People Use Zoom in 2022?” [27] “A day in the life of the internet,”
https://backlinko.com/zoom-users,2022.
https://wonderproxy.com/blog/a-day-in-the-life-of-the-internet/,
| [2] J. Novet, |     | “Zoom | CFO | explains | how | the com- |          |                |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------- | --- | ----- | --- | -------- | --- | -------- | -------- | -------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|               |     |       |     |          |     |          | accessed | onApril5,2023. |     |     |     |     |     |
pany is grappling with increased demand,” [28] F. Y. Yan, H. Ayers, C. Zhu, S. Fouladi, J. Hong, K. Zhang, P.Levis,
https://www.cnbc.com/2020/03/18/zoom-cfo-explains-how-the-company-is-grappalinndg-Kw.itWh-iinnsctreeinas,e“dL-deaermnianngd.ihntmsilt,u: arandomized experiment invideo
2020. streaming,” inNSDI’20,SantaClara,CA,feb2020,pp.495–511.
[3] H. Chang, M. Varvello, F. Hao, and S. Mukherjee, “Can you see me [29] J. Fang, M. Ellis, B. Li, S. Liu, Y. Hosseinkashi, M. Revow, A. P.
| now? a | measurement | study | of zoom, | webex, | and | meet,” in IMC ’21, |             |         |           |           |          |            |        |
| ------ | ----------- | ----- | -------- | ------ | --- | ------------------ | ----------- | ------- | --------- | --------- | -------- | ---------- | ------ |
|        |             |       |          |        |     |                    | Sadovnikov, | Z. Liu, | P. Cheng, | S. Ashok, | D. Zhao, | R. Cutler, | Y. Lu, |
2021,pp.216–228. and J. Gehrke, “Reinforcement learning for bandwidth estimation
[4] K. MacMillan, T. Mangla, J. Saxon, and N. Feamster, “Measuring and congestion control in real-time communications,” ArXiv, vol.
| theperformance |     | andnetworkutilization |     | ofpopularvideoconferencing |     |     | abs/1912.02222, | 2019. |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | --------------------- | --- | -------------------------- | --- | --- | --------------- | ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
applications,” inIMC’21,2021,pp.229–244. [30] H. Zhang, A. Zhou, J. Lu, R. Ma, Y. Hu, C. Li, X. Zhang, H. Ma,
| [5] J. Jiang, | R. Das, | G. Ananthanarayanan, |     | P.  | A. Chou, | V. Padmanabhan, |        |              |           |        |       |           |            |
| ------------- | ------- | -------------------- | --- | --- | -------- | --------------- | ------ | ------------ | --------- | ------ | ----- | --------- | ---------- |
|               |         |                      |     |     |          |                 | and X. | Chen, “Onrl: | Improving | mobile | video | telephony | via online |
V. Sekar, E. Dominique, M. Goliszewski, D. Kukoleca, R. Vafin, reinforcement learning,” inMobiCom ’20,2020.
and H. Zhang, “Via: Improving internet telephony call quality using [31] P. Hu, R. Misra, and S. Katti, “Dejavu: Enhancing videoconferencing
predictive relayselection,” inSIGCOMM’16,2016,pp.286–299. withpriorknowledge,” inHotMobile ’19,2019,pp.63–68.
[6] Y. Xu, C. Yu, J. Li, and Y. Liu, “Video telephony for end-consumers: [32] S. Zhang, J. He, A. C. Zhou, and B. He, “Briskstream: Scaling
| measurement | studyofgoogle+, |     | ichat, | andskype,”2012. |     |     |             |            |     |               |           |                 |     |
| ----------- | --------------- | --- | ------ | --------------- | --- | --- | ----------- | ---------- | --- | ------------- | --------- | --------------- | --- |
|             |                 |     |        |                 |     |     | data stream | processing | on  | shared-memory | multicore | architectures,” | in  |
[7] O. Haq and F. R. Dogar, “Leveraging the power of cloud for reliable SIGMOD’19,2019,pp.705–722.
wideareacommunication,” inHotNets ’15,2015. [33] G. Mencagli, M. Torquati, M. Danelutto, and T. De Matteis, “Par-
[8] M. H. Hajiesmaili, L. T. Mak, Z. Wang, C. Wu, M. Chen, and allel continuous preference queries over out-of-order and bursty data
A. Khonsari, “Cost-effective low-delay cloud video conferencing,” in streams,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems,
ICDCS’15,2015,pp.103–112.
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | vol.28,no.9,pp.2608–2624, |     |     | 2017. |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------- | --- | --- | ----- | --- | --- | --- |
[9] O. Haq, M. Raja, and F. R. Dogar, “Measuring and improving the [34] J.Traub,P.M.Grulich,A.R.Cuellar,S.Breß,A.Katsifodimos,T.Rabl,
reliability ofwide-area cloudpaths,”inWWW’17,2017,pp.253–262. and V. Markl, “Scotty: Efficient window aggregation for out-of-order
[10] Bitag, “2020 pandemic network performance,” streamprocessing,” inICDE’18,2018,pp.1300–1303.
https://bitag.org/documents/bitag report.pdf,2021. [35] H.Miao,H.Park,M.Jeon,G.Pekhimenko,K.S.McKinley,andF.X.
[11] T.-Y.Huang,R.Johari,N.McKeown,M.Trunnell,andM.Watson,“A
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | Lin, “Streambox: |     | Modern | stream processing | on  | a multicore | machine,” |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | ------ | ----------------- | --- | ----------- | --------- |
buffer-based approach to rate adaptation: Evidence from a large video inUSENIXATC’17,2017,pp.617–629.
streamingservice,” inSIGCOMM’14,2014,pp.187–198. [36] S. Zhang, Y. Wu, F. Zhang, and B. He, “Towards concurrent stateful
[12] J. Uberti and C. Jennings, “Webrtc: Real-time communication stream processing on multicore processors,” in ICDE ’20, 2020, pp.
| between | browsers,” | RFC | 7478, | 2013. | [Online]. | Available: | 1537–1548. |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | ---------- | --- | ----- | ----- | --------- | ---------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7478
[37] L.Gu,D.Zeng,S.Guo,Y.Xiang,andJ.Hu,“Ageneralcommunication
[13] R.Zhu,B.Liu,D.Niu,Z.Li,andH.V.Zhao,“Networklatencyestima- cost optimization framework for big data stream processing in geo-
tion for personal devices: A matrix completion approach,” IEEE/ACM distributed data centers,” IEEE Transactions on Computers, vol. 65,
Transactions onNetworking, vol.25,no.2,pp.724–737, 2017. no.1,pp.19–29,2015.
[14] S. Agarwal, “Public cloud inter-region network latency as heat-maps,” [38] A.Rabkin,M.Arye,S.Sen,V.S.Pai,andM.J.Freedman,“Aggregation
https://medium.com/@sachinkagarwal/public-cloud-inter-region-network-latency-aansd-hdeeagt-rmadaaptiso-n13i4ne2je2tast5rfefa1m9,: Streaming analytics inthe widearea,” in
| 2018. |     |     |     |     |     |     | NSDI’14,2014,pp.275–288. |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
[15] Matt, “Awslatency monitoring,” https://www.cloudping.co/grid,2024. [39] B. Zhang, X. Jin, S. Ratnasamy, J. Wawrzynek, and E. A. Lee,
[16] zartbot, “Interconnection Test of Public Cloud,” “Awstream:Adaptivewide-areastreaminganalytics,”inSIGCOMM’18,
| https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/rEO6ICeNvWIIBUIEHYewIg,2020. |     |     |     |     |     |     | 2018,pp.236–252. |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
[17] Y.Wu,C.Wu,B.Li,andF.C.Lau,“Vskyconf: Cloud-assisted multi- [40] Z. Liu, Y. Feng, and B. Li, “Bellini: Ferrying application traffic flows
partymobilevideoconferencing,” inMCC’13,2013,pp.33–38. through geo-distributed datacenters inthecloud,” inGLOBECOM’13,
[18] E. Kurdoglu, Y. Liu, and Y. Wang, “Perceptual quality maximization 2013,pp.1753–1759.
for video calls with packet losses by optimizing fec, frame rate, and [41] H.XuandB.Li,“Jointrequestmappingandresponseroutingforgeo-
quantization,” IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, vol. 20, no. 7, pp. distributed cloudservices,”inINFOCOM’13,2013,pp.854–862.
1876–1887, 2018. [42] L.Zhao,Y.Yang,A.Munir,A.X.Liu,Y.Li,andW.Qu,“Optimizing
[19] T.-Y.Huang,R.Johari,N.McKeown,M.Trunnell,andM.Watson,“A geo-distributeddataanalyticswithcoordinatedtaskschedulingandrout-
buffer-based approach to rate adaptation: Evidence from a large video ing,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 31,
streaming service,” SIGCOMM ’14, vol. 44, no. 4, pp. 187–198, aug no.2,pp.279–293,2019.
2014. [43] H.Mostafaei, S.Afridi, andJ.H.Abawajy, “Snr:Network-aware geo-
[20] B. Briscoe, A. Brunstrom, A. Petlund, D. Hayes, D. Ros, I.-J. Tsang, distributed streamanalytics,” inCCGrid’21,2021,pp.820–827.
S.Gjessing,G.Fairhurst,C.Griwodz,andM.Welzl,“Reducinginternet [44] W.Li, D.Niu, Y. Liu, S.Liu, andB. Li, “Wide-area spark streaming:
latency:Asurveyoftechniquesandtheirmerits,”IEEECommunications Automated routing and batch sizing,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel
Surveys andTutorials, vol.18,no.3,pp.2149–2196, 2016. andDistributedSystems,vol.30,no.6,pp.1434–1448,2018.

| [45] Z. V. | C. Inc., “Zoom | Connection Process | White Paper,” |
| ---------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------- |
https://bit.ly/3D1oeAw,2021.